<h2 style="text-align: center">✨ 🪐 ExtraSolar • Architecture 🌍 ⭐</h2>

### Functional Domain Driven Design

The project is structured around Domain Driven Design (DDD) with a heavy emphasis on functional programming.  Object Oriented and imperative patterns might exist minimally.

My personal preference is to avoid external dependencies where possible which led to the creation of hand-written functional utilities located at `src/utilities/functional`. These are influenced by the Haskell language as well as the `fp-ts` and `ramda` JavaScript libraries. This decision is also a by-product of `ExtraSolar` existing as a learning playground.

---

### Typescript

TypeScript is the backbone language of the project, chosen for type safety and maintainability. All source code under `src/` is written in `.ts` or `.tsx` files to leverage features for the DDD structure and philosophy.

### Vite

Vite is the core tool used in development. It powers the development server, bundling, and hot module replacement (HMR) for a smooth dev experience.

Configuration of Vite lives in `vite.config.ts`, with minimal setup to support typescript and our DDD structure:

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from "vite";

export default defineConfig({
  root: "src/presentation/",
  build: {
    outDir: "../../dist",
  },
});
```

### The NASA API

This project doesn't leverage its own data (for now...) and as such there isn't a traditional full stack data or API layer.  Instead it pulls data from NASA, populating it entirely in the client UI.  I have my own opinions and complaints about the functionality and design of this data but it suits the needs of the project with a only a few hoops to jump through.

### Folder and File Structure

As a DDD styled project the structure below is used at the `src` level.  The traditionally labelled `Application` and `Infrastructure` layers are renamed as indicated.

```
- src
  - domain
  - services (Application layer; the DDD Use Cases)
  - external (Infrastructure layer; NASA, Firebase, etc)
  - presentation
  - utility
```

### Presentation and UI

The presentation layer is located in `src/presentation/`.  It is primarily a client-only React web application that relies on  the NASA archive to handle data fetching.

MUI (aka Material UI) is the baseline for UI components, known for consistency and stability as an industry standard.

The most notable UI feature is the probably the HTML canvas used to render solar systems.  It currently only provides a 2D visualization but a long term goal for the project is to provide a 3D visualization via ThreeJS as well. 

### State Management

The only state management requirement in this project lies in the user-facing React client for UI preferences and solar system data.  Redux was the natural choice to work along side React, long known for its standardized structure, power and flexibility.

### Other Services

The project has minimal features that are dependent on external services.

The ability to "bookmark" exoplanet systems and persist other user preferences outside the web browser leans on Firebase.

### Vitest
**coming soon**

---

<nav style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; padding: 10px 0;">
  <a href="./03.project-scope.md">← Project Scope</a>
  <a href="./01.introduction.md">Home</a>
  <a href="./05.contributing.md">Contributing →</a>
</nav>
